docs/infrastructure/unix-toolset.md, before:

Building a new Mono toolset
====
This document describes building a new Mono toolset for use in our Mac or Linux Jenkins jobs.  

### Building Roslyn Toolset
The new *toolset name* will be chosen as one of the follownig:

- Linux: roslyn.linux.`<version number>`
- Mac: roslyn.mac.`<version number>`

The value of *version number* will simply be the one number higher than the current version number of the toolset.  

To build the toolset do the following:

- Run cibuild.sh locally
- Rename `Binaries/Bootstrap` to the *toolset name* above
- Bzip the directory: `tar -jcvf <toolset name>.tar.bz2 Binaries/<toolset name>`.
- Upload the file to the Azure in the dotnetci storage account in the roslyn container.  
- Send a PR to change [cibuild.sh](https://github.com/dotnet/roslyn/blob/master/cibuild.sh) to use the new toolset.  

### Existing Roslyn Toolsets
This table describes the existing Mono toolsets and the commit they were built from.  

| Version | Linux | Mac |
| --- | --- | --- |
| 1 | [8dbfd942f07be971f423722891717e2ba9d9bebb](https://github.com/dotnet/roslyn/commit/8dbfd942f07be971f423722891717e2ba9d9bebb) | [8dbfd942f07be971f423722891717e2ba9d9bebb](https://github.com/dotnet/roslyn/commit/8dbfd942f07be971f423722891717e2ba9d9bebb) |
| 2 | [5486cb18322e9782fccff6741f18933b545be0fa](https://github.com/dotnet/roslyn/commit/5486cb18322e9782fccff6741f18933b545be0fa) | |

### Building Mono
The new *toolset name* will be chosen as one of the following:

- Linux: mono.linux.`<version number>`
- Mac: mono.mac.`<version number>`

The value of *version number* will simply be the one number higher than the current version number of the toolset.  

To build the toolset execute the following:

- Set `$PREFIX` to `/tmp/<toolset name>`
- Follow the remainder of the [Compiling Mono](http://www.mono-project.com/docs/compiling-mono/) instructions.
- From the previous drop, copy the following things from the old drop to the new, in the same locations:
  - lib/mono/xbuild-frameworks/.NETPortable/*
  - lib/mono/xbuild/Microsoft/*
- Bzip the resulting directory.  `tar -jcvf <toolset name>.tar.bz2 /tmp/<toolset name>`
- Upload the file to the Azure in the dotnetci storage account in the roslyn container.  
- Send a PR to change [cibuild.sh](https://github.com/dotnet/roslyn/blob/master/cibuild.sh) to use the new toolset.  

Note: This process needs to be repeated for both Mac and Linux.  

### Existing Mono Toolsets
This table describes the existing Mono toolsets and the commit they were built from.  

| Version | Linux | Mac |
| --- | --- | --- |
| 1 | [43af8d475d853c8408ddaddbed4cfd61d2919780](https://github.com/jaredpar/mono/commit/43af8d475d853c8408ddaddbed4cfd61d2919780) | [43af8d475d853c8408ddaddbed4cfd61d2919780](https://github.com/jaredpar/mono/commit/43af8d475d853c8408ddaddbed4cfd61d2919780) |
| 5 | [<not migrated> | [Mono 4.2.1.60](https://github.com/mono/mono/tree/mono-4.2.1.60) |

Commit message:

Respond to PR feedback on Makefile

docs/infrastructure/unix-toolset.md, after:

Building a new Mono toolset
====
This document describes building a new Mono toolset for use in our Mac or Linux Jenkins jobs.  

### Building Roslyn Toolset
The new *toolset name* will be chosen as one of the follownig:

- Linux: roslyn.linux.`<version number>`
- Mac: roslyn.mac.`<version number>`

The value of *version number* will simply be the one number higher than the current version number of the toolset.  

To build the toolset do the following:

- Run `make bootstrap` locally
- Rename `Binaries/Bootstrap` to the *toolset name* above
- Bzip the directory: `tar -jcvf <toolset name>.tar.bz2 Binaries/<toolset name>`.
- Upload the file to the Azure in the dotnetci storage account in the roslyn container.  
- Send a PR to change [Makefile](https://github.com/dotnet/roslyn/blob/master/Makefile) to use the new toolset.  

### Existing Roslyn Toolsets
This table describes the existing Mono toolsets and the commit they were built from.  

| Version | Linux | Mac |
| --- | --- | --- |
| 1 | [8dbfd942f07be971f423722891717e2ba9d9bebb](https://github.com/dotnet/roslyn/commit/8dbfd942f07be971f423722891717e2ba9d9bebb) | [8dbfd942f07be971f423722891717e2ba9d9bebb](https://github.com/dotnet/roslyn/commit/8dbfd942f07be971f423722891717e2ba9d9bebb) |
| 2 | [5486cb18322e9782fccff6741f18933b545be0fa](https://github.com/dotnet/roslyn/commit/5486cb18322e9782fccff6741f18933b545be0fa) | [34870a4d27547b9ba628cbbc4a02028648d62d82](https://github.com/dotnet/roslyn/commit/34870a4d27547b9ba628cbbc4a02028648d62d82)|

### Building Mono
The new *toolset name* will be chosen as one of the following:

- Linux: mono.linux.`<version number>`
- Mac: mono.mac.`<version number>`

The value of *version number* will simply be the one number higher than the current version number of the toolset.  

To build the toolset execute the following:

- Set `$PREFIX` to `/tmp/<toolset name>`
- Follow the remainder of the [Compiling Mono](http://www.mono-project.com/docs/compiling-mono/) instructions.
- From the previous drop, copy the following things from the old drop to the new, in the same locations:
  - lib/mono/xbuild-frameworks/.NETPortable/*
  - lib/mono/xbuild/Microsoft/*
- Bzip the resulting directory.  `tar -jcvf <toolset name>.tar.bz2 /tmp/<toolset name>`
- Upload the file to the Azure in the dotnetci storage account in the roslyn container.  
- Send a PR to change [cibuild.sh](https://github.com/dotnet/roslyn/blob/master/cibuild.sh) to use the new toolset.  

Note: This process needs to be repeated for both Mac and Linux.  

### Existing Mono Toolsets
This table describes the existing Mono toolsets and the commit they were built from.  

| Version | Linux | Mac |
| --- | --- | --- |
| 1 | [43af8d475d853c8408ddaddbed4cfd61d2919780](https://github.com/jaredpar/mono/commit/43af8d475d853c8408ddaddbed4cfd61d2919780) | [43af8d475d853c8408ddaddbed4cfd61d2919780](https://github.com/jaredpar/mono/commit/43af8d475d853c8408ddaddbed4cfd61d2919780) |
| 5 | [<not migrated> | [Mono 4.2.1.60](https://github.com/mono/mono/tree/mono-4.2.1.60) |
